Barrett Hazeltine GP'15, professor emeritus of engineering
Over the course of his more than 40 years at Brown, Hazeltine has become a 
living legend for engineers and non-engineers alike. His courses &ndash; particularly 
ENGN0090: "Management of Industrial and Non-profit Organizations" &ndash; have 
attained bucket-list status for many students because of his reputation as an 
instructor. After repeatedly receiving recognition from the graduating class for 
teaching, Hazeltine in 1985 became the namesake for the award, now called the 
Barrett Hazeltine Citation.

Ken Miller '70 P'02, professor of biology
A Brown graduate who has been teaching at his alma mater since 1980, Miller has 
been winning over the minds of science and pre-med students in his class BIOL 
0200: "Foundations of Living Systems." He has authored multiple textbooks used 
by Brown students, appeared on television shows such as Comedy Central's "The 
Colbert Report," written many articles in newspapers and journals, lectured at 
universities across the country and received notable awards and commendations 
from students, faculty and scientific institutions and societies. 

Arnold Weinstein, professor of comparative literature 
A legend among literature-inclined students, Weinstein has taught at Brown 
since 1968. He has received honors on and off College Hill, including a Fulbright 
professorship in Stockholm and a research fellowship from the National 
Endowment for the Humanities, and has lectured at both the Brown Bookstore to 
students and on television to Oprah Winfrey. The courses he has taught include 
COLT 1420: "The Fiction of Relationship," COLT 0610: "Rites of Passage" 
and COLT 0710: "Introduction to Scandinavian Literature." "The Fiction of 
Relationship" was also one of three courses the University adapted for its venture 
into the online education platform Coursera.

John Savage P'88 P'95 P'03 P'05 GP'17, professor of computer science 
Since coming to Brown in 1967, Savage has helped establish the Department of 
Computer Science, received multiple awards, been appointed a science fellow in 
the U.S Department of State and had all four of his children and one grandchild 
attend Brown. His expertise in computer science &ndash; particularly cybersecurity, 
&ndash;has made his classes, such as CSCI 1800: "Cybersecurity and International 
Relations" and CSCI 0510: "Models of Computation" popular among computer 
science concentrators and non-concentrators interested in the world of algorithms 
and computations.

Joseph Pucci, associate professor of classics and in the program in Medieval studies and 
associate professor of comparative literature 
Pucci was rated in 2012 one of the top 300 professors in the United States 
according to the Princeton Review and has been part of the Brown community for 
more than 20 years. The author of numerous books, instructor of the renowned 
class CLAS 1120: "The Idea of Self" and the recipient of many awards from 
societies, universities and associations in his fields of expertise, Pucci has himself 
arguably become a classic at Brown.

James Morone, professor of political science
Any political science or urban studies concentrator will rave about Morone's 
dynamic lecturing style and vivacious personality after being one of the more than 
400 students who take his class POLS 0220: "City Politics" every spring. He has 
written many books about cities and politics, received on multiple occasions the 
Hazeltine Citation &ndash; a recognition from the senior class that honors excellent 
teaching &ndash; and now has a Twitter account for students to follow him whether 
they are on campus or graduated (<a href="//twitter.com/ProfJimMorone">@ProfJimMorone</a>). 

Stéphanie Ravillon, lecturer in French studies
Since joining the Department of French Studies in 2003, Ravillon has taught 
students at all levels of the spoken and written language, which has garnered her 
spot among the top 300 professors of 2012 in the Princeton Review. 

Robert Serrano, professor of economics
Serrano has been at Brown since 1992 in the Department of Economics teaching a 
variety of courses from ECON 0110: "Principles of Economics" to ECON 1470: 
"Bargaining Theory and Applications." Serrano is famous amongst students, 
economists and academics in both the United States and his native country, Spain, 
for his work on economic theory.

Jan Tullis, professor of geology
Tullis came to Brown's Department of Geological Sciences in 1970 and has 
been mentoring students &ndash; particularly women in the sciences through Brown's 
Women in Science and Engineering group &ndash; as a concentration adviser. Many 
students have developed a passion for geology after taking her courses GEOL 
0220: "Physical Processes in Geology" or GEOL 1450: "Structural Geology." Her 
dedication to geology, teaching and her students has garnered her many lifelong 
fans, numerous awards from the University and a reputation for offering some of 
the top science courses at Brown.

Wendy Schiller, associate professor of political science and public policy
Students interested in American politics have jumped at the chance to enroll in 
one of the numerous courses taught by Schiller, ranging from the foundational 
POLS 0010: "Introduction to the American Political Process" to seminars on 
everything from the presidency to symbolism in American government. Her 
biggest fans also will spot her off campus on Twitter (@profwschiller) as a 
commentator on cable news or on shows, such as "Real Time with Bill Maher."

Robert Self, professor of history
American history aficionados at Brown laud Self's courses, from HIST 1750: 
"American Politics and Culture since 1945" to HIST 1775: "The Intimate State: 
the Politics of Gender, Sex and Family in the U.S, 1873-Present." A recipient of 
many teaching and research awards from the University and Brown students, Self 
focuses on the intersection of American politics, civil rights movements and 20th 
century history. He is also a prolific author who has written several books and 
articles for magazines and newspapers across the country.
Michael Vorenberg, associate professor of history
Vorenberg acquired campus-wide fame last year for his scholarly contributions to 
the making of the Stephen Spielberg film "Lincoln," but he was already known 
among historians at Brown for his courses on the Civil War and American history.

Chinua Achebe (1930-2013), David and Marianna Fisher University professor of 
Africana studies
Many Brown students know Achebe's name even before setting foot on campus. The 
internationally renowned Nigerian novelist joined the Brown faculty in September 2009 
and remained a professor until his death in March 2013. His 1958 novel "Things Fall 
Apart" received critical acclaim, acquiring required reading status in many literature 
courses. 

Rick Benjamin, adjunct assistant professor of environmental studies and public humanities
Aside from teaching popular courses such as ENVS 0520: "Wild Literature and the 
Urban Landscape," Benjamin in January 2013 received the title of State Poet of Rhode 
Island from Governor Lincoln Chafee '75 P'14 P'17. In his literature and humanitarian 
work, Benjamin is promoting the connection between community building and poetry. 
Tracy Breton, visiting professor of English
Journalists and non-journalists alike claw tooth and nail to enroll in Breton's classes 
&ndash; including ENGL 0160: "Journalistic Writing" and ENGL 1160: "Advanced Feature 
Writing." Breton covered the court system and legal issues for the Providence Journal 
for over 40 years, winning the Pulitzer Prize in investigative journalism in 1994 for her 
exposure of corruption in Rhode Island courts, a story that led multiple high-level justices 
to resign.

Josiah S. Carberry, professor of psychoceramics
Perhaps the most intriguing and elusive of all of the University's professors, Josiah S. 
Carberry has yet to be seen on College Hill. Carberry's persona was created as a joke 
in 1929, and since then he has pioneered the field of psychoceramics &ndash; the study of 
cracked pots &ndash; around the globe. Each Friday the 13th and Feb. 29 is dubbed "Josiah 
Carberry Day," on which scheduled lectures at which Carberry is slated to speak do not 
take place when he fails to attend. The campus eatery Josiah's, the Carberry sandwich 
and the online University library catalog, Josiah, are all named for the fictitious professor. 
Carberry's wife, Laura, and three children, Lois, Patricia and Zedediah, remain similarly 
evasive.

Leon Cooper, professor of physics
The name Leon Cooper carries weight far beyond College Hill. Cooper, along with 
two other contributors, received a Nobel Prize in physics in 1972 for his theory of 
superconductivity. His research also spawned a scientific namesake &ndash; two electrons 
fused together at low temperatures are known as a Cooper pair, because Cooper was the 
first scientist to note the phenomenon in 1956. The protagonist of the television sitcom 
"The Big Bang Theory," Sheldon Cooper, is named for Cooper. 

John Donoghue PhD'79 ‘09 P12 MD'16 professor of neuroscience
Donoghue was the founding chair of the Department of Neuroscience, a position he held 
from 1991 to 2006. But BrainGate is the word most associated with Donoghue in recent 
months. The brain-to-computer interface recently won a $1 million international prize for 
the innovative technology's promise to provide a greater level independence to people 
with paralysis by the operation of robotic limbs using brainwaves. Donoghue and Arto 
Nurmikko, professor of engineering, are the project's two leading researchers.

Donald Hornig (1920- 2013), 14th University President and professor of chemistry
In 1951 Hornig was named a professor of chemistry after only five years at the 
University, making him one of the youngest ever professors at age 31. After former 
President Ray Heffner's controversial resignation just one day after the 1969 adoption 
of the Open Curriculum, Hornig was chosen to serve as University president in 1970 &ndash; 
the first selection process to which students and faculty contributed input. Though his 
presidency was also mired with controversy and protest due to his unpopular financial 
decisions, Hornig left Brown on stronger financial footing in 1976, having reduced the 
University's deficit by over 84 percent. Hornig also left a legacy beyond College Hill, 
serving as a science advisor to U.S. presidents including John F. Kennedy and Richard 
Nixon as well as working on the Manhattan Project. 

Tricia Rose, professor of Africana studies and director of the Center for the Study of 
Slavery and Justice in America
There are few professors at the University who have laid the foundations for entire fields 
of study, and Tricia Rose is among them. Many consider her novel "Black Noise: Rap 
Music and Black Culture in Contemporary America" to be the breakthrough work for the 
now-acclaimed academic study of hip-hop. 

Dwight Sweigart P'05 (1945- 2012), professor of chemistry
Sweigart's students and colleagues called him "boss." Starting in 1980, Sweigart taught 
inorganic chemistry courses at Brown for over 30 years. Sweigart had a reputation 
for inspiring and mentoring his students. Last July, the chemistry department and the 
company Strem Chemicals held a symposium in his honor, which drew past students 
from around the world. 

Andries Van Dam, professor of computer science
Van Dam makes a splash on campus every year at the end of the first day of class for his 
computer science course CSCI 0150: "Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming." 
Clothed in the classic garb of characters such as Darth Vader and Albus Dumbledore, 
Van Dam leads underclassmen and upperclassmen alike to pursue computer science 
with passion and whimsy. Van Dam has many professional accolades, including as 
co-designer for the first Hypertext Editing System in the 1960s. He also served as the 
University's vice president for research from 2002 to 2006. Van Dam is rumored to be 
the namesake of the character Andy in the popular Disney franchise "Toy Story." Many 
of the films' creators were Van Dam's students at Brown.

Gordon Wood, professor emeritus of history
The 1993 Pulitzer Prize-winning novel "The Radicalism of the American Revolution" is 
cited countless times each year as the premiere work on revolution-era American political 
thought and policy. Politicians, historians and students alike equally celebrate its author, 
Gordon Wood, who has been teaching at Brown since 1969. His research on American 
history still contributes to society today through lectures and works related to the Arab 
Spring and 2013 protests in Egypt. Wood has also acquired fame in popular culture, 
due to famous scene in the hit movie "Good Will Hunting," in which the protagonist 
disparages a Harvard student by saying that he will soon be "regurgitating Gordon 
Wood" in his studies.

Fiery Cushman, assistant professor of cognitive, linguistic and psychological sciences
Spring semesters at Brown see Salomon 101 filled to the brim as close to 400 students 
flock to hear a professor whom many Brunonians refer to as one of the most engaging 
lecturers at Brown. With Cushman at the helm of CLPS 0700: "Social Psychology," 
enrollment in the class has almost doubled over three years. According to the Critical 
Review, Cushman's sense of humor keeps the class engaging, despite the number of 
students enrolled. The assistant professor is also a leading researcher in the field of moral 
psychology. To the despair of many undergraduates, Cushman will leave the University 
after this year to take a position at Harvard, where he completed both his undergraduate 
and doctoral degrees.
