study_spots/andrews.jpg
The newest addition to the University's congregating centers, Andrews Dining Commons provides a sun-lit and social study environment with a wealth of comfortable seating steps from the popular new eatery.

study_spots/ABP.jpg
Under Au Bon Pain's signature yellow awning lies  one of the classic study locations on Thayer &ndash; with tables for spreading books across, a sure supply of coffee and plenty of sandwiches, baked goods and salads within easy reach. 

study_spots/AQR.jpg
Behind these glass doors in the basement of the John D. Rockefeller Library lies the "Absolute Quiet Room," one of the quietest spaces on campus. Students can get absorbed in a book or frantically write a near-due paper without worrying about sounds of chatter, snacking, electronic use or music.

study_spots/athenaeum.jpg
Brown students in need of time off campus or a more scenic alternative to the Rock or Sciences Library can trek down to Benefit Street to poke into the Athenaeum, a historic independently operated library. Students can study in a private desk on the stacks on the upper floors, surrounded by books are transported back to the 19th century origins of the library.

study_spots/barhol.jpg
Home to the School of Engineering and the Physics Department, Barus &amp; Holley provides students a spot to settle down to work on problem sets in proximity to plenty of tables and chairs, a snack station and easy access to the office of the professor who assigned that challenging homework. 

study_spots/blue_room.jpg
Students know there is no place better than the Blue Room to do some light studying while surrounded by everyone else on campus&ndash;especially if they can snag a much-coveted booth. Its central location, comfortable seating and constant scent of fresh-baked muffins make it a great study spot for some lazy afternoon reading or a study group meet-up. 

study_spots/bookstore.jpg
Armed with headphones and a pile of reading, caffeinated students frequent the Brown Bookstore's location of Blue State Coffee , prowling for tables at which they can camp out. Students who do notbring a study buddy will likely make a new friend by sharing a table for a couple of hours as while sipping a latte or nibbling a fresh pastry or sandwich. 

study_spots/granoff.jpg
One of the newer additions to campus, the Granoff Center was opened in 2011 as a shared space for artists, performers and scholars across the social sciences, arts and humanities. The walls of windows allow plenty of light to stream into any of the classrooms, studios or study nooks you choose &ndash; hope at the end of the homework tunnel.

study_spots/JWW.jpg
Make the effort to get up early one weekend morning &ndash; either alone or with a group &ndash; and find a classroom in JWW to overtake for an afternoon of studying. There you will find plenty of place to spread out and make noise without fear of retribution from library-goers.

study_spots/leung.jpg
This spacious room directly above the Blue Room in the newly renovated Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center is named for the Leung family portrayed in the large painting hanging on the wall. The room functions as an informal quiet space and offers tables, comfortable chairs and couches to lounge on while  studying.

study_spots/orwig.jpg
Tucked away on the east side of campus, Orwig Music Library provides an ideal study space for musicians and non-musicians alike, with plenty of practice rooms and study areas for those who want to find a spot away from the bustle of main campus with the perk of eavesdropping on morning rehearsals.

study_spots/ratty.jpg
Whether committed to the day-long campout in the Sharpe Refectory that students call the "Ratty Challenge," or just passing a few hours in the afternoon after the lunch rush, the comfort of the Ratty's study alcoves makes for great study space during the semester, with endless supplies of food to fuel a study session and streams of friends providing moral support.

study_spots/ri_hall.jpg
This historic white building on the Main Green that houses the Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology is one of the best not-so-secret secret study spots on campus. Spread throughout Rhode Island Hall are plenty of lounge chairs, tables and empty classrooms for those seeking a not-too-densely populated weekend retreat.

study_spots/rock_reading_room.jpg
The Rock's reading rooms offer students quiet places to concentrate and spread out on an open table.

study_spots/rock_stacks.jpg
On the upper floors of the Rock, the carrels tucked in the stacks are  home to students working on long-term research projects, theses and dissertations.

study_spots/scili_mezz.jpg
The Mezz, on the second floor of the Sciences Library, is a place where hoardes of students congregate to jump on computers, print assignments, spread out on tables or lounge chairs and can feel free to chat and snack as they work. 

study_spots/scili_4th.jpg
With plenty of tables, chairs and bright colors, the middle floors of the SciLi offer quieter study options that are still almost as social as the Mezzanine level.

study_spots/scili_13th.jpg
A classic retreat for any science concentrator, the 13th floor of the Sciences Library is dead silent. In the stacks, students can only hear keyboards clicking and pencils scratching as fellow studiers scramble to finish problem sets and lab reports.

study_spots/SFLS.jpg
The lobby of Sidney Frank Hall for Life Sciences offers a bright and spacious study space &ndash; often overlooked because of its distance from the center of campus&ndash; with plenty of seating and less foot traffic than the lobbies of many other campus buildings. An extra perk is its proximity to many popular Thayer Street eateries.

study_spots/starbucks.jpg
For those who need their foamy, double-shot caramel lattes and mood music in the background while they study,  the ever-crowded but reliable Starbucks on the corner of Thayer is a go-to. If the long table in the center is full, snagging a window seat affords students the opportunity to people-watch while working.

study_spots/sunlab.jpg
Open at most hours of the day and night, the SunLab on the first floor of the Center for Information and Technology draws many computer science concentrators, who spend hours in the study space collaborating with their peers on assignments. 

study_spots/tealuxe.jpg
The menu at Tealuxe might seem longer than most writing assignments or problem sets, but it offers a great spot for many students looking to get a little work done (or relax with one of their board games) while sipping some piping hot tea.

study_spots/underground.jpg
In daylight hours, the Underground at the Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center provides a space with plenty of tables and chairs &ndash; and a pool table for study breaks&ndash; where students can retreat with a Blue Room sandwich and a pile of homework.

